Variable	House	Question																																							ABORT1	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. The woman decides on her own she does not wish to have the child.																																							ABORT2	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. The couple agree they do not wish to have the child.																																							ABORT2FR	BES	"I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out can you say whether you think it has gone too far , not gone far enough , or is it about right? The availability of abortion in the National Health Service?"																																							ABORT2FR	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: The availability of abortion on the National Health Service?"																																							ABORT3	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. The woman is not married and does not wish to marry the man.																																							ABORT4	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. The couple cannot afford any more children.																																							ABORT5	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. There is a strong chance of a defect in the baby.																																							ABORT6	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. The woman's health is seriously endangered by the pregnancy.																																							ABORT7	BSA	Please say whether or not you think the law should allow an abortion in each case. The woman became pregnant as a result of rape.																																							ABORT8	NOP	Agree/disagree with statement: Abortion should be made legally available for all the people who want it.																																							ABORT9	GALLUP	Do you think abortion operations should or should not be legal in cases where: The health of the mother is in danger?																																							ABORT10	GALLUP	Do you think abortion operations should or should not be legal in cases where: The child may be born deformed?																																							ABORT11	GALLUP	Do you think abortion operations should or should not be legal in cases where: The family does not have enough money to support another child?																																							ABORT12	WWS	Do you approve or disapprove of abortion under the following circumstances? When a married couple does not want to have any more children.																																							ABORT13	WWS	Do you approve or disapprove of abortion under the following circumstances? When the woman is not married.																																							ABORTNHS	GALLUP	Do you think abortions should or should not be provided on the National Health Service?																																							AIDPOOR	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Giving more aid to poorer countries in Africa and Asia country. "																																							AIDPOOR	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Giving more aid to poorer countries in Africa and Asia country. "																																							AIDSMONY	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The National Health Service should spend more resources on giving better care to people dying from AIDS. 																																							ASYLUM	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements. Most asylum seekers who come to Britain should be sent home immediately.																																							BANPARTY	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it Political parties which wish to overthrow democracy should be allowed to stand in general elections.																																							BASINC	BSA	Please show how much you agree or disagree with each statement. The government should provide everyone with a guaranteed basic income.																																							BIGBUSNN	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Big business benefits owners at the expense of workers.																																							BIGBUSTH	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements. Big international companies are a threat to democratic government in Britain.																																							BLAME	NOP	"Who do you think is most to blame for Britain’s economic problems, the Government, the trade unions, or the employers?"																																							BPRIOR1	BSA	"Looking at the list below, please tick a box next to the one thing you think should be Britain's highest priority, the most important thing it should do. Britain should 1) Maintain order in the nation 2) Give people more say in government decisions 3) Fight rising prices 4) Protect freedom of speech."																																							BPRIOR1	BES	"If you had to choose from among the items on this card, which are the two that seem most desirable to you? 1) Maintaining order in the nation 2) Giving people more say in important political decisions 3) Fighting rising prices 4) Protecting freedom of speech."																																							BPRIOR2	WVS	"If you had to choose, which one of the things on this card would you say is most important? And which would be the next most important? 1) Maintaining order in the nation 2) Give people more say 3) Fighting rising prices 4) Protecting freedom of speech."																																							BUSPOWER	BES	Do you think that big business in this country have too much power or not?																																							CAPPUN1	BSA	Are you in favour of or against the death penalty for: Murder in the course of a terrorist act?																																							CAPPUN2	BSA	Are you in favour of or against the death penalty for: Murder of a policeman?																																							CAPPUN3	BSA	Are you in favour of or against the death penalty for: Other murders?																																							CARSPOL1	BSA	"In general, do you think that air pollution caused by cars is extremely dangerous, very dangerous, somewhat dangerous, not very dangerous, or not dangerous at all?"																																							CARTAXHI	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. For the sake of the environment, car users should pay higher taxes."																																							CENSOR	BES	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Censorship of films and magazines is necessary to uphold moral standards.																																							CENSOR	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Censorship of films and magazines is necessary to uphold moral standards.																																							CHOPPWOM	BES	"And now I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out, please use this card to say whether you think it has gone too far or not far enough: How about attempts to give equal opportunities to women in Britain?"																																							CHOPPWOM	BSA	"Now I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one, please tell me whether you think it has gone too far, or not gone far enough: How about attempts to give equal opportunities to women in Britain?"																																							CHOPPWOM	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: Attempts to ensure equality for women?"																																							CHRGTDEM	BES	"I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out can you say whether you think it has gone too far , not gone far enough , or is it about right: The right to have protest marches and demonstrations?"																																							CHRGTDEM	BSA	"The right of people to go on protest marches and demonstrations? Has it gone too far, or not far enough?"																																							CLASSSTR	GALLUP	There used to be a lot of talk in politics about the 'class struggle'. Do you think there is a class struggle in this country or not?																																							CLOSEEUR	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: Britain should have a closer relationship with the European Union even if this means some loss of sovereignty.																																							COMINFLU	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Taking tougher measures to prevent Communist influence in Britain. "																																							COMINFLU	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Taking tougher measures to prevent Communist influence in Britain. "																																							COMMKT1	NOP	Do you approve or disapprove of Britain joining the Common Market?																																							COMMKT2	GALLUP	"If the British Government were to decide that Britain's interests would best be served by joining the European Common Market, would you approve or disapprove?"																																							COMMKT3	GALLUP	Do you approve or disapprove of the Government applying for membership of the European Common Market?																																							COMMKT4	GALLUP	Do you consider we were right or wrong to join the Common Market?																																							COMMKT5	BES	"If the question of going into the Common Market comes up again, do you think that Britain should go in, stay out, or don't you have an opinion on that? "																																							COMMKT6	GALLUP	On the facts as you know them as present are you for or against Britain joining the Common Market?																																							COMMKT7	GALLUP	"If an opportunity occurs for Britain to apply to join the Common Market would you like to see us try, or drop the idea altogether?"																																							COMMKT8	NOP	"Generally speaking, do you think being a member of the Common Market has been a good thing for Britain or a bad thing for Britain?"																																							COMPREH	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Establishing comprehensive schools in place of grammar schools throughout the country."																																							COMPREH	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Establishing comprehensive schools in place of grammar schools throughout the country."																																							COMPSCH	NOP	"Are you in favour of comprehensive schools, or do you think it is better to have separate grammar and secondary schools?"																																							CONCERN	BSA	Which do you think is of most concern to you and your family: Inflation or unemployment?																																							CONTROLS	GALLUP	Which comes nearest to your opinion about controls in trade and industry?																																							CONTROL2	GALLUP	"Do you think that there should be more, less or about the same amount of government control of industry as at present?"																																							CRIMEHR	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements. Violent criminals deserve to be deprived of some of their human rights.																																							CRIMELIB	BES	"Some people think that reducing crime is more important than protecting the rights of people accused of committing crimes. Other people think that protecting the rights of accused people is more important than reducing crime. On the 0-1 scale below, where would you place your own view?"																																							CRIME1	GALLUP	"There has been a great deal of concern in this country over the increase in crime and violence. Here is a list of possible causes. Obviously some are more important than others. I would like you to go down the list and say for each one whether you think it a very important cause of crime and violence, fairly important or of little importance. General breakdown in respect for authority, law and order. "																																							CRIME2	GALLUP	"There has been a great deal of concern in this country over the increase in crime and violence. Here is a list of possible causes. Obviously some are more important than others. I would like you to go down the list and say for each one whether you think it a very important cause of crime and violence, fairly important or of little importance. Laws too lenient and not letting the police do their job."																																							CRIME3	GALLUP	"There has been a great deal of concern in this country over the increase in crime and violence. Here is a list of possible causes. Obviously some are more important than others. I would like you to go down the list and say for each one whether you think it a very important cause of crime and violence, fairly important or of little importance. Poverty and poor housing."																																							CRIME4	GALLUP	"There has been a great deal of concern in this country over the increase in crime and violence. Here is a list of possible causes. Obviously some are more important than others. I would like you to go down the list and say for each one whether you think it a very important cause of crime and violence, fairly important or of little importance. Level of unemployment."																																							CRIMREH	BES	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. Convicted criminals need to be rehabilitated rather than punished.																																							DAMLIVES	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Cutting welfare benefits would damage too many people's lives.																																							DEATHAB1	GALLUP	Should the death penalty be abolished altogether or not?																																							DEATHAB2	GALLUP	"In this country most people convicted of murder are sentenced to death. Do you agree with this, or do you think that the death penalty should be abolished?  "																																							DEATHAPP	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. For some crimes, the death penalty is the most appropriate sentence."																																							DEATHNEV	BES	"Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. The death penalty, even for very serious crimes, is never justified."																																							DEATHPEN1	BES	Would you like to see the death penalty kept or abolished?																																							DEATHPEN2	BES	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. Britain should bring back the death penalty."																																							DEATHPEN2	BSA	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. Britain should bring back the death penalty."																																							DEATHPEN3	BEPS	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. Britain should bring back the death penalty."																																							DEATHPEN3	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Bringing back the death penalty."																																							DEATHPEN3	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Bringing back the death penalty."																																							DEATHPEN4	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murder of members of the army and police forces?																																							DEATHPEN5	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Terrorist murders?																																							DEATHPEN6	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murdering a woman following a sexual assault?																																							DEATHPEN7	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murdering a man who surprises him breaking into a premises?																																							DEATHPEN8	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murder by someone while under the influence of alcohol?																																							DEATHPEN9	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murder by someone while suffering from insanity or some serious mental disease?																																							DEATHPEN10	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murdering someone as a result of considerable provocation?																																							DEATHPEN11	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Murdering someone just for the fun of it?																																							DEATHPEN12	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Child rape?																																							DEATHPEN13	GALLUP	Do you think the death penalty should or should not be introduced for: Rape?																																							DEFENCE	BES	"Do you think the government should or should not do the following things, or doesn't it matter either way? Spend less on defence?"																																							DEFENCE	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show whether or not you think the government should: Spend less on defence.																																							DEFENSE	GALLUP	"Do you think the government is spending too much, too little, or about the right amount on: Defence?"																																							DIFFSNEC	BSA	Do you agree or disagree with each of these statements? Large differences in income are necessary for Britain's prosperity.																																							DIVORCE	GALLUP	"What's your attitude towards divorce: It should not be allowed at all, it should be easier than at the present time, it should be more difficult than at present?"																																							DOLE	BSA	Opinions differ about the level of benefits for the unemployed. Which of these two statements comes closest to your own opinion? Benefits for the unemployed are too low and cause hardship or Benefits are too high and discourage people from finding jobs.																																							DOLEFIDL	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Most people on the dole are fiddling in one way or another.																																							ECPOLICY	BSA	"Do you think Britain's long-term policy should be to leave the European Union, to stay in the EU and try to reduce its powers, to leave things as they are, to stay in the EU and try to increase its powers, or, to work for the formation of a single European government?"																																							ECGBCLSE	BSA	"As a member state, would you say that Britain's a relationship with the European Community should be closer, less close, or is it about right?"																																							ECOHELP2	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Control of prices by legislation.																																							ECOHELP3	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Reducing the level of Government spending on health and education.																																							ECOHELP4	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Introducing import controls																																							ECOHELP5	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Increasing Government subsidies for private industry.																																							ECOHELP6	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Devaluation of the pound.																																							ECOHELP7	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Reducing Government spending on defence.																																							ECOHELP8	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Government incentives to encourage job sharing or splitting.																																							ECOHELP9	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Government to set up construction projects to create more jobs.																																							ECOHELPA	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Government action to cut interest rates.																																							ECOHELPB	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Government controls on hire purchase and credit.																																							ECOHELPC	BSA	Here are a number of policies that might help Britain’s economic problems. As I read them out will you tell me whether you would support such a policy or oppose it? Government controls to cut down goods from abroad.																																							ECOSOLUT	NOP	"If, in order to solve Britain's economic problems, you had to choose between  a cut in everyone's living standards or a slight rise in unemployment, which would you choose?"																																							ECUVIEW	BSA	And here are three statements about the future of the pound in the European Community. Which one comes closest to your view? 1) Replace the pound by a single currency 2) Use both the pound and a new European currency in Britain 3) Keep the pound as the only currency in Britain.																																							EDUC	GALLUP	"Do you think the government is spending too much, too little, or about the right amount on: Education?"																																							EEC	GALLUP	Now a few questions about Britain's relationships with other countries. Do you think Britain should continue to be a member of the EEC - the Common Market - or should it withdraw?																																							EMPIRE	BES	"Do you think Britain gave up her Empire too fast, or not?"																																							ENVBUS	MORI	"Agreement with statement: ""British companies do not pay enough attention to their treatment of the environment"""																																							ENVCAR	ICM	The government should give a higher priority to environmental policy even if it means penalising car drivers.																																							ENVJOBS	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements: We worry too much about the environment today and not enough about people’s jobs.																																							ENVPRICE	ICM	The Government should give a higher priority to environmental policy even if this means higher prices for some goods?																																							ENVTAX	WVS	"I am now going to read out some statements about the environment. For each one read out, can you tell me whether you agree strongly, agree, disagree or strongly disagree? I would agree to an increase in taxes if the extra money were used to prevent environmental pollution."																																							EQUOPP	ESS	Now I will briefly describe some people. Please listen to each description and tell me how much each person is or is not like you. Use this card for your answer. She/he thinks it is important that every person in the world should be treated equally. She/he believes everyone should have equal opportunities in life																																							ETHNCAID	BSA	How much you agree or disagree with the following statement? Ethnic minorities should be given government assistance to preserve their customs and traditions 																																							EUCONREF	BSA	How do you think you would vote in a referendum on the proposed new European constitution? Would you vote in favour of Britain adopting the new constitution or against?																																							EUFTF	ESS	"Now thinking about the European Union, some say European unification should go further. Others say it has already gone too far. Using this card, what number on the scale best describes your position?"																																							EUGOOD	GALLUP	"Generally speaking, do you think that Britain's membership of the Common Market (European Union) is a good thing, a bad thing or neither good or bad? "																																							EUMEMB	MORI	"If there were a referendum now on whether Britain should stay in or get out of the European Union, how would you vote?"																																							EUMEMB2	BES	"Overall, do you approve or disapprove of Britain's membership in the European Union?"																																							EUMEMB3	BHPS	"Generally speaking, do you think that Britain's membership of the European Union is a good thing, a bad thing, or is it neither good nor bad?"																																							EUMEMB4	BHPS	"Taking everything into consideration, would you say that Britain has on balance benefited or not from being a member of the European Union?"																																							EUMEMB5	BHPS	"Do you think Britain's long-term EU policy should be? 1) Leave the EU 2) Stay in, cut EU power 3) Leave things as they are 4) Stay in, more EU power 5) Form single EU government.  "																																							EURO1	ICM	"If there were to be a referendum, would you vote to join the single European currency or vote not to join?"																																							EURO2	MORI	"If there were a referendum now on whether Britain should be part of a Single European Currency, how would you vote?"																																							EURO3	MORI	"In a referendum, would you vote for or against Britain replacing the pound sterling with the Single European Currency?"																																							EURO4	BES	"Thinking of the Single European Currency (Euro), which of the following statements on this card would come closest to your own view? Definitely join as soon as possible, join if and when the economic conditions are right, stay out for at least the ne ... "																																							EURO5	MORI	Which of the following best describes your own view of British participation in the single currency? 																																							EUROREF	BSA	"If there were a referendum on whether Britain should join the single European currency, the Euro, how do you think you would vote? Would you vote to joint the Euro, or not to join the Euro? IF 'would not vote', PROBE: If you did vote, how would you v ..."																																							FALSECLM	BSA	I will read two statements. For each one please say whether you agree or disagree? Strongly or slightly? a) Large numbers of people these days falsely claim benefits																																							FREEEQU	WVS	"Which of these two statements comes closest to your own opinion? A. I find that both freedom and equality are important. But if I were to choose one or the other, I would consider personal freedom more important, that is, everyone can live in freedom and develop without hinderance B. Certainly both freedom and equality are important. But if I were to choose one or the other, I would consider equality more important, that is, that nobody is underprivileged and that social class differences are not so strong."																																							FREEHMS	ESS	"Using this card, please say to what extent you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. Gay men and lesbians should be free to live their own life as they wish."																																							FOXHUNT	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Fox hunting should be banned by law.																																							GAYSEX	BES	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Homosexual relations are always wrong.																																							GAYSEX	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Homosexual relations are always wrong.																																							GAYSEX2	BEPS	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Homosexual relations are always wrong.																																							GAYSEX3	BHPS	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Homosexual relations are always wrong.																																							GINCDIF	ESS	"Using this card, please say to what extent you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. The government should take measures to reduce differences in income levels."																																							GOVECON3	BSA	Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Please show which actions you are in favour of and which you are against. Cuts in government spending.																																							GOVECON4	BSA	Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Please show which actions you are in favour of and which you are against. Government financing of projects to create new jobs.																																							GOVECON5	BSA	Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Please show which actions you are in favour of and which you are against. Less government regulation of business.																																							GOVECON6	BSA	Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Please show which actions you are in favour of and which you are against. Support for industry to develop new products and technology.																																							GOVECON7	BSA	Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Please show which actions you are in favour of and which you are against. Supporting declining industries to protect jobs.																																							GOVECON8	BSA	Here are some things the government might do for the economy. Please show which actions you are in favour of and which you are against. Reducing the working week to create more jobs.																																							GOVEDSP	BES	"Do you think the government should or should not do the following things, or doesn't it matter either way? Spend more money on education?"																																							GOVENVIR	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The government should do more to protect the environment, even if it leads to higher taxes."																																							GOVHAND	BES	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. Too many people these days like to rely on government handouts."																																							GOVHELP4	BSA	"Please tick one box on each line to show your views on government help for industry. Remember that if you say 'definitely' or 'probably', it might require an increase in income tax to pay for it. Do you think the government should ... ... help indust ..."																																							GOVINVEST	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: The economy would be stronger if the government borrowed money and used it for investment.																																							GOVJOB	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. It is government's responsibility to provide a job for everyone who wants one.																																							GOVJOB	GALLUP	Would you please tell me for each of the following statements how much you agree or disagree? It is the Government's responsibility to provide a job for everyone who wants one.																																							GOVJOBS	BES	"Using this card, please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. The government should spend more money to create jobs"																																							GOVJOBS2	BHPS	People have different views about society. I'm going to read out some things people have said about Britain today and I'd like you to tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about each statement. It is the government's responsibility to provide a job for everyone who wants one																																							GOVNHSSP	BES	"Do you think the government should or should not do the following things, or doesn't it matter either way? Put more money into the National Health Service."																																							GOVNHSSP	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Putting more money into the Health Service."																																							GOVNHSSP	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Putting more money into the Health Service."																																							GOVRESP1	BES	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. a. It is the government's responsibility to provide a job for everyone who wants one																																							GOVRESP1	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Provide a job for everyone who wants one?"																																							GOVRESP2	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Keep prices under control?"																																							GOVRESP3	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Provide health care for the sick?"																																							GOVRESP4	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Provide a decent standard of living for the old?"																																							GOVRESP5	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Provide industry with the help it needs to grow?"																																							GOVRESP6	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Provide a decent standard of living for the unemployed?"																																							GOVRESP7	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Reduce income differences between the rich and poor?"																																							GOVRESP8	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Give financial help to university students from low-income families?"																																							GOVRESP9	BSA	"On the whole, do you think it should or should not be the government's responsibility to: Provide decent housing for those who can't afford it?"																																							GOVROLE1	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? Electricity.																																							GOVROLE2	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? Local public transport.																																							GOVROLE3	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? Gas.																																							GOVROLE4	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? Banking and insurance.																																							GOVROLE5	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? The car industry.																																							GOVROLE6	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? The telephone system.																																							GOVROLE8	BSA	What do you think the government's role in each of these industries and services should be? The steel industry.																																							GOVWASTE	YOUGOV	"Do you think that most of the money the government raises in taxes is well spent, or do you think a considerable proportion of it is wasted?"																																							GRHSEFF2	BSA	"In general, do you think that a rise in the world's temperature caused by the 'greenhouse effect' is extremely dangerous, very dangerous, somewhat dangerous, not very, or not dangerous at all?"																																							HEFEE	BSA	"I'm now going to ask you what you think about university or college students or their families paying towards the costs of their tuition, either while they are studying or after they have finished. Which of the views on this card comes closest to wha ... "																																							HEFEENOW	BSA	"I'm now going to ask you what you think about university or college students paying towards the costs of their tuition - either while they are studying or after they have finished. Firstly, students and their families paying towards the costs of their tuition while they are studying. Which of the views on this card comes closest to what you think about that?"																																							HEGRANT	BSA	"When British students go to university or college they generally get grants from the local authority. Do you think they should get grants as now, or loans which would have to be paid back when they start working?"																																							HILOWTAX	BSA	"Do you think that people with high incomes should pay a larger share of their income in taxes than those with low incomes, the same share, or a smaller share?"																																							HLPPRMED	BES	"Do you think the government should or should not do the following things, or doesn't it matter either way? Encourage the growth of private medicine"																																							HLTHFREE	BHPS	Would you tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about the following statement: All health care should be available free of charge to everyone regardless of their ability to pay																																							HLTHPRIO	BHPS	"Would you tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about the following statement: It is not fair that some people can get medical treatment before others, just because they can afford to pay for it"																																							HOMOADCH	GALLUP	"In your opinion, should homosexuals be allowed to adopt children or not?"																																							HOMOLAW	GALLUP	Do you think that homosexual relations between consenting adults should or should not be legal?																																							HOMOP2FR	BES	"Has it gone too far or not gone far enough? Attempts to give equal opportunities to homosexuals, that is, gays and lesbians"																																							HOMOP2FR	BSA	"Has it gone too far, or not far enough? Attempts to give equal opportunities to homosexuals - that is, gays and lesbians."																																							HOMOSEX	BSA	What about sexual relations between two adults of the same sex? Please choose a phrase from this card																																							IDCARDS	BSA	And please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. d) Every adult in Britain should have to carry an identity card.																																							IMBGECO	ESS	Would you say it is generally bad or good for [country]'s economy that people come to live here from other countries?																																							IMMCULT	ESS	"And, using this card, would you say that [country]'s cultural life is generally undermined or enriched by people coming to live here from other countries?"																																							IMMEXCLU	BSA	How much you agree or disagree with the following statement? Britain should take stronger measures to exclude illegal immigrants.																																							IMMIGRT	BES	Do you think too many immigrants have been let into this country or not?																																							IMMIGRT	BSA	Do you think that too many immigrants have been let into the country or not?																																							IMMIGRT1	BSA	"There are different opinions about immigrants from other countries"" living In Britain. (By ""immigrants"" we mean people who come to live in Britain. ) How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Immigrants increase crime rates"																																							IMMIGRT1	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements. Immigrants increase crime rates.																																							IMMIGRT2	BSA	How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Immigrants are generally good for Britain's economy.																																							IMMIGRT2	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements. Immigrants generally are good for Britain’s economy.																																							IMMIGRT3	BSA	How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Immigrants take jobs away from people who were born in Britain.																																							IMMIGRT4	BSA	How much do you agree or disagree with each of the following statements? Immigrants make Britain more open to new ideas and cultures.																																							IMMIGRT5	GALLUP	Do you think that on the whole this country has benefited or been harmed through immigrants coming to settle here from the Commonwealth?																																							IMMIGRT6	GALLUP	"Do you think that coloured people from the Commonwealth should have the right of completely free entry to Britain, should there be restrictions on entry, or should they be kept out completely?"																																							IMMBACK	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Sending coloured immigrants back to their own country. "																																							IMMBACK	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Sending coloured immigrants back to their own country. "																																							IMMJOBPR	WWS	"Do you agree or disagree with the following statements? When jobs are scarce, employers should give priority to [Nation] people over immigrants?"																																							IMMMANY	YOUGOV	Do you agree or disagree with the following statement? Too many immigrants are coming to Britain.																																							IMMMANY2	MORI	Agree/disagree with statement: There are too many immigrants in Britain.																																							IMMNUMB	BSA	"Do you think the number of immigrants to Britain nowadays should be increased a lot, increased a little, remain as it is, reduced a little, or reduced a lot? "																																							IMMRELAT	GALLUP	Do you think that the dependents and relatives of coloured immigrants already here should or should not be allowed into this country? 																																							IMWBCNT	ESS	Is [country] made a worse or a better place to live by people coming to live here from other countries?																																							INCDIFCC	BSA	What is your opinion of the following statement? It is the responsibility of the government to reduce the differences in income between people with high incomes and those with low incomes.																																							INCDIFFS	BSA	Please show how much you agree or disagree with each statement. Differences in income in Britain are too large.																																							INCLMTS	BHPS	People have different views about the way governments work. I'm going to read out some things people have said about governments in Britain and I'd like you to tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about each statement. The government should place an upper limit on the amount of money that any one person can make.																																							INEQUAL	WVS	"Now I'd like you to tell me your views on various issues. How would you place your views on this scale? 1 means you agree completely with the statement on the left; 10 means you agree completely with the statement on the right; and if your views fall somewhere in between, you can choose any number in between. Incomes should be made more equal OR We need larger income differences as incentives."																																							INDENVIR	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Industry should do more to protect the environment, even if it leads to lower profits and fewer jobs."																																							INDRESP	WVS	"Now I'd like you to tell me your views on various issues. How would you place your views on this scale? 1 means you agree completely with the statement on the left; 10 means you agree completely with the statement on the right; and if your views fall somewhere in between, you can choose any number in between. People should take more responsibility to provide for themselves OR The government should take more responsibility to ensure that everyone is provided for."																																							INDTAX	BSA	Do you consider the amount of tax that business and industry have to pay is too high or too low?																																							INDUST5	BSA	Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements about industry today. Employees need strong trade unions to protect their interests.																																							INFCNTRL	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: It is more important for the government to control inflation than to reduce unemployment.																																							INFVUNE	BES	Please look at this card. Some people feel that getting people back to work should be the government's top priority. These people would put themselves in Box A. Other people feel that keeping prices down should be the government ' s top priority. These people would put themselves in Box K. Any other people have views somewhere in-between. In the first row of boxes please tick whichever box comes closest to your own views about unemployment and inflation.																																							JOBFRALL	BSA	Please show how much you agree or disagree with each statement. The government should provide a job for everyone who wants one.																																							JUSTICE	BSA	"All systems of justice make mistakes, but which do you think is worse? To convict an innocent person, or to let a guilty person go free?"																																							LABINCEQ	BES	Please look at this card. Some people feel that government should make much greater efforts to make people's incomes more equal. These people would put themselves in Box A . Other people feel that government should be much less concerned about how equal people ' s incomes are. These people would put themselves in Box K. Any other people have views somewhere in-between. In the first row of boxes please tick whichever box comes closest to your own views about redistributing income.																																							LAWEASY	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: moves to go easier on people who break the law?"																																							LEFTRIGH	BSA	Derived Variable: Left Right Scale																																							LEGCAN	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Smoking cannabis (marijuana) should be legalised.																																							LIBAUTH	BSA	Derived Variable: Libertarian Authoritarian Scale.																																							LORDS	BSA	Do you think that the House of Lords should remain as it is or is some change needed? 1) All or most of its members should be appointed 2) All or most of its members should be elected 3) It should contain roughly an equal number of appointed and elected members 4) It should be abolished.																																							LORDS00	BSA	Which of the statements on this card comes closest to your view about what should happen to the House of Lords.																																							LORDS2	GALLUP	What are your views about the House of Lords? 1) Leave as it is 2) Keep it but reform 3) Abolish it 4) Don't know.																																							LRSPBES	BES	"In politics people sometimes talk of left and right. Where would you place yourself on a scale from 0 to 10, where 0 means the left and 10 means the right? "																																							LRSPBSA	BSA	In politics people sometimes talk of the left and right. Where would you place yourself on a scale from 0 to 10 where 0 means the left and 10 means the right? 																																							LRSPEB	EUROB	In political matters people talk of 'the left' and 'the right'. How would do you place your views on this scale? 																																							LRSPESS	ESS	"In politics people sometimes talk of 'left' and 'right'. Using this card, where would you place yourself on this scale, where 0 means the left and 10 means the right?"																																							LRSPGALL	GALLUP	In political matters people talk of 'the left' and 'the right'. How would do you place your views on this scale? 																																							LRSPICM	ICM	"When people talk about politics, they sometimes talk about the left, the right and the centre. Where would you put yourself on this scale?"																																							LRSPWWS	WWS	"In political matters, people talk of the 'left' and 'the right'. How would you place your views on this scale, generally speaking?"																																							LRSPYGOV	YOUGOV	"Some people talk about 'left', 'right', and 'centre' to describe parties and politicians. Where would you place yourself on this scale?"																																							MEMBRSHP	EUROB	"Generally speaking, do you think that Britain's membership of the Common Market (European Union) is a good thing, a bad thing or neither good or bad? "																																							MIDTAX	YOUGOV	"Do you think people on middle incomes pay too much in taxes, too little or about the right amount?"																																							MODTEACH	BES	Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. For each of these changes you can say whether it has gone too far or not far enough. How do you feel about the change to modern methods in teaching children at schools nowadays?																																							MODTEACH	GALLUP	Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. For each of these changes you can say whether it has gone too far or not far enough. How do you feel about the change to modern methods in teaching children at schools nowadays?																																							MONARCHY	BSA	How about the monarchy or the Royal Family in Britain. How important or unimportant do you think it is for Britain to continue to have a monarchy?																																							MONARCHY2	GALLUP	"Which of these statements comes closest to your own view? 1) The Monarchy and the Royal Family should stay pretty much as they are now 2) The Monarchy and the Royal Family should continue to exist but should become more democratic and approachable, rather like the Monarchy and Royal Family in the Netherlands 3) The Monarch should be abolished and replaced by a non-executive figurehead president like the one they have in some continental countries. "																																							MONREPRF	MORI	"If there were a referendum on the issue, would you favour Britain becoming a republic or remaining a monarchy?"																																							MONVSREP	MORI	Would you favour Britain becoming a republic or remaining a monarchy?																																							MRCHYABO	MORI	"On balance, do you think Britain would be better off or worse off if the monarchy was abolished or do you think it would make no difference? "																																							MRCHYLUX	MORI	Agree/disagree with statement: The Royal Family is an expensive luxury the country cannot afford.																																							MRCHYMON	MORI	Agree/disagree with statement: The Royal Familiy should not receive as much money as it does.																																							MOREWELF	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The government should spend more money on welfare benefits for the poor, even if it leads to higher taxes."																																							NATLAND	GALLUP	"Would you approve or disapprove of nationalising land that is intended for building, leaving the remainder in private hands? "																																							NATNL1	BES	"Just to make sure about your views, are you generally in favour of more nationalisation of companies by government, more privatisation of companies by government or - should things be left as they are now?"																																							NATNL2	BES	Please look at this card. Some people feel that government should nationalise many more private companies. These people would put themselves in Box A. Other people feel that government should sell off many more nationalised industries. These people would put themselves in Box K. Any other people have views somewhere in-between. In the first row of boxes please tick whichever box comes closest to your own views about nationalisation and privatisation.																																							NATNL3	GALLUP	"What are your views on nationalisation? Do you think there should be more nationalisation, more denationalisation, or should things be left as they are?"																																							NATNL4	GALLUP	"Which of these statements comes closest to what you, yourself, feel about nationalisation?"																																							NATNLSTN	BSA	"Are you generally in favour of more nationalisation of companies by government, more privatisation of companies by government, or should things be left as they are now?"																																							NATPRIV	BES	"There has been a lot of talk recently about nationalisation, that is, the Government owning and running industries like steel and electricity. Which of these statements on nationalisation comes closest to what you yourself feel should be done ? 1) A lot more industries should be nationalised 2) Only a few more industries should be nationalised 3) No more industries should be nationalised but industries that are now nationalised should stay nationalised 4) Some of the industries that are now nationalised should become private companies."																																							NATPRIV	BSA	"Some people talk about nationalising industry. Which of these statements on this card comes closest to what you yourself feel should be done? If you don't have an opinion, just say so. 1) A lot more industries should be nationalised 2) Only a few more industries should be nationalised 3) No more industries should be nationalised, but industries that are now nationalised should stay nationalised 4) Some of the industries that are now nationalised should become private companies."																																							NATPRIV2	GALLUP	"Some industries today are in private hands and some are nationalised, owned by the government. What do you think of the present combination of public and private ownership?"																																							NATSTEEL	NOP	Do you think the government should or should not nationalise the steel industry?																																							NATSTEEL2	GALLUP	"Do you approve, or disaprove, of the Government's plan to nationalise the iron and steel industry? "																																							NEWTECH	BSA	Do you think that the introduction of new technology in Britain over the next five years will c) Please tick one box to show whether you agree or disagree with the following statement: The government should do more to encourage the spread of new tech ...																																							NHS	GALLUP	"Do you think the government is spending too much, too little, or about the right amount on: Health?"																																							NHSLIMIT	BSA	It has been suggested that the National Health Service should be available only to those with lower incomes. This would mean that contributions and taxes could be lower and most people would then take out medical insurance or pay for health care. Do 																																							NIREFUT	NOP	"Do you think that Northern Ireland should form some sort of union with the Irish Republic, should Northern Ireland become an independent State, or should Northern Ireland remain part of the UK?  "																																							NIRELAND	BSA	Do you think the long-term policy for Northern Ireland should be for it to remain part of the United Kingdom or to reunify with the rest of Ireland?																																							NIRETROOP	GALLUP	Which of these statements comes closest to the way you yourself feel about the presence of British troops in Northern Ireland? 1) We should withdraw our troops immediately 2) We should withdraw our troops within 5 years 3) British troops should remain in Northern Ireland until a settlement is reached 4) We should not withdraw our troops																																							NIRTROOPS	BES	I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each of one you can say whether you feel it is…Withdrawing troops from Northern Ireland immediately?																																							NIRTROOPS	GALLUP	I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each of one you can say whether you feel it is…Withdrawing troops from Northern Ireland immediately?																																							NORTHIRE	GALLUP	"Which one of these statements comes closest to the way you. Yourself, feel about British troops in Northern Ireland? 1) We should begin to withdraw our troops 2) We should carry on with the present number? 3) We should increase the number of troops?"																																							NOTRUDS2	BES	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. There is no need for strong trade unions to protect employees' working conditions and wages																																							NOTRUDS2	BSA	"Here are a number of opposite statements. For each pair, please tick one box to show which you agree with more. There is no need for strong trade unions to protect employees' working conditions and wages or Employees will never protect their working conditions and wages without strong trade unions."																																							NOTRUNS	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. There is no need for strong trade unions to protect employees' working conditions and wages.																																							NOTRUNS	GALLUP	Would you please tell me for each of the following statements how much you agree or disagree? There is no need for strong trade unions to protect employees working conditions and wages.																																							NUCLEAR1	BES	There’s a lot of talk these days about nuclear weapons. Which of these three statements comes closest to what you yourself feel should be done? If you don’t have an opinion about this just say so.																																							NUCLEAR2	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: Britain is safer having its own nuclear weapons.																																							NUCLEAR3	MORI	Do you support or oppose the Government adopting the following policy? Get rid of nuclear weapons in Britain even if other countries keep theirs?																																							NUCLEAR4	GALLUP	It has been suggested that Britain should give up relying on nuclear weapons for defence whatever other countries decide. Do you think this is a good idea or a bad idea?																																							NUCLEAR5	GALLUP	What policy should Britain follow about nuclear weapons? 1) Continue to make our own nuclear weapons 2) Pull all nuclear weapons with other NATO countries and rely mainly on American production 3) Give up nuclear weapons entirely																																							NUCLEAR6	NOP	Should Britain give up its nuclear arms even if other countries do not give up theirs?																																							NUCENER1	GALLUP	"At present, about 10 percent of the total electricity in Great Britain comes from nuclear power. What do you think should be the development of nuclear power generation in this country 1) They should increase nuclear power generation 2) They should not develop any more than at present 3) They should stop generating nuclear power 4) Don't know "																																							NUCENER2	GALLUP	What do you think should be the development of nuclear power generation in this country 1) They should increase nuclear power generation 2) They should not develop any more than at present 3) They should stop generating nuclear power 4) Don't know 																																							NUCENER3	GALLUP	What would you do if a nuclear power station were to be built in your area?																																							NUCPOWER	BES	"And now I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out, please use this card to say whether you think it has gone too far or not gone far enough. The building of nuclear power stations."																																							NUCSAFE	GALLUP	"From what you have read or heard, how safe do you think nuclear power stations are?"																																							NUCWASTE	GALLUP	"Nuclear power stations produce waste that will remain radio-active for centuries, but this can be buried at sea or deep underground. Do you think that this is a risk worth taking or not?"																																							NUDSEX	BES	"And now I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out, please use this card to say whether you think it has gone too far or not gone far enough. The right to show nudity and sex in films and magazines."																																							NUDSEX	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: the right to show nudity and sex in films and magazines?"																																							NUDSEX	BSA	Has it gone too far or not far enough? The right to show nudity and sex in films and magazines.																																							OBEY	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Schools should teach children to obey authority.																																							OBEYLAW	BSA	"In general would you say that people should obey the law without exception, or are there exceptional occasions on which people should follow their consciences even if it means breaking the law?"																																							PAYDISP	GALLUP	"In the pay disputes which have occurred this year, have your symphaties been mainly with the employers or with the workers?"																																							PCNOSOLC	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The police should be allowed to question suspects for up to a week without letting them see a solicitor.																																							PENSIONS	GALLUP	"Do you think the government is spending too much, too little, or about the right amount on: Pensions?"																																							PICKET	GALLUP	"Do you think that a trade union should be allowed to picket essential services to the general public, such as power stations, in support of their pay claims? "																																							POORTAX	YOUGOV	"Do you think poor people pay too much in taxes, too little or about the right amount?"																																							PORNO	BSA	Which of these statements comes closest to your views on the availability of pornographic magazines and films? 1) They should be banned altogether 2) They should be available in special adult shops but not displayed to the public 3) They should be available in special adult shops with public display permitted 4) They should be available in any shop for sale to adult only 5)They should be available in any shop for sale to anyone. 																																							POSTMAT	EUROB	"If you had to choose, which one of the things on this card would you say is most important? And which would be the next most important?"																																							POWERIND	GALLUP	"Do you think the balance of power in industry at the moment is tilted too far in the trade unions' direction, too far in management's direction, or is it about right?"																																							PPLENVIR	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Ordinary people should do more to protect the environment, even if it means paying higher prices."																																							PRENTBST	BES	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. Private enterprise is the best way to solve Britain's economic problems.																																							PRENTBST	BSA	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. Private enterprise is the best way to solve Britain's economic problems.																																							PRENTBST	GALLUP	Would you please tell me for each of the following statements how much you agree or disagree? Private enterprise is the best way to solve Britain's economic problems.																																							PRENTBST2	BEPS	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. Private enterprise is the best way to solve Britain's economic problems.																																							PRENTBST3	BHPS	People have different views about society. I'm going to read out some things people have said about Britain today and I'd like you to tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about each statement. Private enterprise is the best way to solve Britain's economic problems.																																							PRISNMOR	BSA	Now a few questions about crime. Here are some possible ways of helping to prevent crime in Britain. How effective do you think each one is? Sending more people to prison.																																							PRIVBUSIN	WVS	"Now I'd like you to tell me your views on various issues. How would you place your views on this scale? 1 means you agree completely with the statement on the left; 10 means you agree completely with the statement on the right; and if your views fall somewhere in between, you can choose any number in between. Private ownership of business should be increased OR Government ownership of business should be increased."																																							PRIVEDUC	BES	"Please use this card to say whether you think the government should or should not do the following things, or doesn't it matter either way? Get rid of private education in Britain."																																							PRIVELECT	GALLUP	Do you think that the new privately owned electricity body would give a better service to electricity users than the present electricity boards?																																							PRIVFAR	BES	"And now I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out, please use this card to say whether you think it has gone too far or not gone far enough. Privatisation of industries."																																							PRIVINS	BHPS	Would you tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about the following statement: People who can afford it should have to take out private health insurance rather than use the National Health Service																																							PRIVSCH	BSA	"Generally speaking, what is your opinion about private or independent schools in Britain? Should there be more private schools, about the same number as now, less private schools, or not private schools at all?"																																							PRMEDNHS	BSA	"Now thinking of private medical treatment in hospitals. Do you think that the existence of private medical treatment in National Health Service hospitals is a good or bad thing for the National Health Service, or doesn't it make any difference to the NHS?"																																							PRMEDPRV	BSA	"Do you think the existence of private medical treatment in private hospitals is a good or a bad thing for the National Health Service, or doesn't it make any difference to the NHS? "																																							PROTENVB	BSA	"If you had to choose, which one of the following would be closest to your views? Government should let businesses decide for themselves how to protect the environment, even if it means they don't always do the right thing OR Government should pass laws to make businesses protect the environment, even if it interferes with business' rights to make their own decisions. "																																							PROTENVP	BSA	"If you had to choose, which one of the following would be closest to your views? Government should let ordinary people decide for themselves how to protect the environment, even if it means they don't always do the right thing OR Government should pass laws to make ordinary people protect the environment, even if it interferes with people's rights to make their own decisions. "																																							PROTEST1	BSA	There are many ways people or organisations can protest against a government action they strongly oppose. Please show which you think should be allowed and which should not be allowed by ticking a box on each line. Should it be allowed? Organising public meetings to protest against the government.																																							PROTEST3	BSA	There are many ways people or organisations can protest against a government action they strongly oppose. Please show which you think should be allowed and which should not be allowed by ticking a box on each line. Organising protest marches and demonstrations.																																							PROTEST6	BSA	There are many ways people or organisations can protest against a government action they strongly oppose. Please show which you think should be allowed and which should not be allowed by ticking a box on each line. Should it be allowed? Organising a nationwide strike of all workers against the government.																																							PROTLEAF	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. People should be allowed to publish leaflets to protest against the government.																																							PROTMEET	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. People should be allowed to organise public meetings to protest against the government.																																							PROUDWLF	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The creation of the welfare state is one of Britain's proudest achievements.																																							PUBOWNST	BES	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Major public services and industries ought to be in state ownership.																																							PUBOWNST	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Major public services and industries ought to be in state ownership.																																							PUBOWNST	GALLUP	Would you please tell me for each of the following statements how much you agree or disagree? Major public services and industries ought to be in public ownership.																																							PUBOWNST2	BEPS	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. g. Major public services and industries ought to be in state ownership																																							PUBOWNST3	BHPS	People have different views about society. I'm going to read out some things people have said about Britain today and I'd like you to tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about each statement. Major public services and industries ought to be in state ownership																																							PUBSERV	ICM	Some people say the government is placing too much emphasis on using private companies to provide public services. Do you agree or disagree?																																							RACECR	GALLUP	"There has been a great deal of concern in this country over the increase in crime and violence. Here is a list of possible causes. Obviously some are more important than others. I would like you to go down the list and say for each one whether you think it a very important cause of crime and violence, fairly important or of little importance...Conflict between whites and blacks "																																							RACEEQU	BES	Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. For each of these changes you can say whether it has...How do you feel about recent attempts to ensure equality for coloured people in Britain?																																							RACEEQU	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: recent attempts to ensure equality for coloured people in Britain?"																																							RACEEQU2	BES	"And now I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out, please use this card to say whether you think it has gone too far or not far enough: Attempts to give equal opportunities to black people and Asians in Britain?"																																							RACEEQU2	BSA	Has it gone too far or not far enough? Attempts to give equal opportunities to black people and Asians in Britain.																																							RACELAW	BSA	"There is a law in Britain against racial discrimination, that is against giving unfair preference to a particular race in housing, jobs and so on. Do you generally support or oppose the idea of a law for this purpose?"																																							RACEREL	GALLUP	"What are your own feelings towards coloured people -more favourable, less favourable or the same?"																																							RACOP2FR	BES	Has it gone too far or not gone far enough? Attempts to give equal opportunities to black people and Asians in Britain?																																							REDISTRB	BES	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. Income and wealth should be redistributed towards ordinary working people?"																																							REDISTRB	BSA	Government should redistribute income from the better-off to those who are less well off																																							REDISTRB2	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Redistributing income and wealth in favour of ordinary working people. "																																							REDISTRB2	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Redistributing income and wealth in favour of ordinary working people. "																																							REDMILIT	BES	Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. For each of these changes you can say whether you feel it has gone to far or not far enough. How do you feel about: The reduction of Britain’s military strength?																																							REDMILIT	GALLUP	Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. For each of these changes you can say whether you feel it has gone to far or not far enough. How do you feel about: The reduction of Britain’s military strength?																																							REDUCPOV	BSA	Now a few questions about crime. Here are some possible ways of helping to prevent crime in Britain. How effective do you think each one is? Reducing poverty																																							RESPAUTH	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: people showing less respect for authority?"																																							RICHLAW	BES	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. There is one law for the rich and one for the poor.																																							RICHLAW	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. There is one law for the rich and one for the poor.																																							RICHLAW2	ICM	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. There is one law for the rich and one for the poor.																																							RICHLAW2	GALLUP	Would you please tell me for each of the following statements how much you agree or disagree? There is one law for the rich and one for the poor.																																							RICHLAW3	BHPS	People have different views about society. I'm going to read out some things people have said about Britain today and I'd like you to tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about each statement. There is one law for the rich and one for the poor.																																							RICHTAX	YOUGOV	"Do you think rich people pay too much in taxes, too little or about the right amount?"																																							RIDPOVTY	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Spending more money to get rid of poverty in Britain. "																																							RIDPOVTY	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Spending more money to get rid of poverty in Britain. "																																							RIDPOVTY	BES	"Please use this card to say whether you think the government should or should not do the following things, or doesn’t it matter either way? Spend more money to get rid of poverty?"																																							RINCEQ	BES	Please look at this page. Some people feel that government should make much greater efforts to make people's incomes more equal . These people would put themselves in Box A. Other people feel that government should be much less concerned about how eq ... 																																							ROADS	GALLUP	"Do you think the government is spending too much, too little, or about the right amount on: Roads?"																																							ROYAL	BES	"How important do you yourself feel the Queen and Royal Family are to Britain- very important, fairly important, or not very important? "																																							ROYAL2	ICM	Do you think that Britain would be better off or worse off without a Royal Family?																																							RPRNAT	BES	Some people feel that government should nationalise many more private companies. These people would put themselves in Box A. Other people feel that government should sell off many more nationalised industries. These people would put themselves in Box ... 																																							RTXSPD	BES	Some people feel that government should put up taxes a lot and spend much more on health and social services . These people would put themselves in Box A . Other people feel that government should cut taxes a lot and spend much less on health and soc ... 																																							RTXSPDP	BEPS	Some people feel that government should put up taxes a lot and spend much more on health and social services . These people would put themselves in Box A . Other people feel that government should cut taxes a lot and spend much less on health and soc ... 																																							RTXSPD2	BES	"Using the 0 to 10 scale on this card, where the end marked 0 means that government should cut taxes and spend much less on health and social services, and the end marked 10 means that government should raise taxes a lot and spend much more on health and social services, where would you place yourself on this scale?"																																							RULEFOLL	ESS	"Now I will briefly describe some people. Please listen to each description and tell me how much each person is or is not like you. Use this card for your answer. She/he believes that people should do what they're told. She/he thinks people should follow rules at all times, even when no-one is watching."																																							SAMEEDUC	BSA	Should the quality of education be the same for all children or should parents who can afford it be able to pay for better education?																																							SAMEHLTH	BSA	"Do you think that the health care should be the same for everyone, or should people who can afford it be able to pay for better health care?"																																							SAVFRRET	BSA	"I will now read out a list of statements. For each one, please tell me, from this card, how much you agree or disagree. The government should encourage people to provide something for their own retirement instead of relying only on the state pension. "																																							SCOBEYLW	BSA	"In general, would you say that people should obey the law without exception, or are there exceptional occasions on which people should follow their consciences even if it means breaking the law?"																																							SEXLAW	BSA	"There is a law in Britain against sex discrimination, that is against giving unfair preference to men - or to women -in jobs, housing and so on. Do you generally support or oppose the idea of a law for this purpose?"																																							SOCBENEF	BES	Now we would like to ask what you think about social services and benefits. Which of these statements do you feel comes closest to your own views? 1) Social services and benefits have gone much too far and should be cut back a lot 2) Social services and benefits have gone somewhat too far and should be cut back a bit 3) Social services and benefits should stay much as they are 4) More social services and benefits are needed.																																							SOCHELP	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Many people who get social security don't really deserve any help.																																							SOCPLAN	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: More socialist planning would be the best way to solve Britain's economic problems.																																							SOCSPND	BES	Do you think that the Government should spend more on pensions and social services or do you feel that spending for social services should stay about as it is now?																																							SOCSPND1	BSA	"Some people think that there should be more government spending on social security, while other people disagree. For each of the groups I read out please say whether you would like to see more or less government spending on them than now. Unemployed people."																																							SOCSPND2	BSA	Would you like to see more or less government spending than now? Benefits for disabled people who cannot work.																																							SOCSPND3	BSA	Would you like to see more or less government spending than now? Benefits for parents who work on very low incomes.																																							SOCSPND4	BSA	Would you like to see more or less government spending than now? Benefits for single parents.																																							SOCSPND5	BSA	Would you like to see more or less government spending than now? Benefits for retired people.																																							SOCSPND6	BSA	Would you like to see more or less government spending than now? Benefits for people who care for those who are sick or disabled.																																							SOLDOFF	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: Profitable state industries should be sold off and run as private companies.																																							STATEOWN	BSA	"On the whole would you like to see more or less state ownership of industry, or about the same amount as now?"																																							STIFRSNT	BSA	Now a few questions about crime. Here are some possible ways of helping to prevent crime in Britain. How effective do you think each one is? Stiffer sentences generally.																																							STIFSENT	BES	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. People who break the law should be given stiffer sentences."																																							STIFSENT	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. People who break the law should be given stiffer sentences.																																							STIFSENT	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Giving stiffer sentences to people than break the law. "																																							STIFSENT	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Giving stiffer sentences to people than break the law. "																																							STIFSENTP	BEPS	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of these statements, or say if you are not sure either way. People who break the law should be given stiffer sentences."																																							STIFSENT2	BES	Please tick one box on each line to show how much you agree or disagree with each of these statements. People who break the law should be given longer prison sentences.																																							STRIKES1	GALLUP	Which of these arguments do you support? The right to strike is one of the essential freedoms of workers in a democracy.																																							STRIKES2	GALLUP	"When a trade union calls a strike, do you think that strikers should or should not receive social security payments for their families?"																																							STRIKES3	GALLUP	"When a trade union calls a strike, do you think that strikers should or should not receive social security payments for themselves?"																																							STRIKES4	BES	When you hear of a strike are your sympathies generally for or against the strikers?																																							STRIKES5	GALLUP	Do you agree or disagree with the legal principle that anyone who feels his interests have been hurt by a strike should be able to to take legal action against the trade unions for damages?																																							STRIKLIM	GALLUP	"Would you approve or disapprove if a law were passed that made it illegal for workers to come out on unofficial strike, that is, to strike without the support of their union?"																																							STRONGTU	BHPS	Which answer of the card comes closest to how you feel about the following statement? Strong trade unions are needed to protect the working conditions and wages of employees.																																							TAXBETTER	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: It is better to pay higher taxes and have better public services than lower taxes and worse public services.																																							TAXME	YOUGOV	"Would you support or oppose a policy which required you personally to pay higher taxes in order to increase spending on public services, such as health, education and welfare?"																																							TAXPROP	GALLUP	"It has been said that anyone owning 20,000 pounds in the way of house, furniture, car, income, etc. should pay a special tax. Do you approve or disapprove of this proposal? "																																							TAXSPEND	BSA	"Suppose the government had to choose between the three options on this card. Which do you think it should choose? 1) Reduce taxes and spend less on health, education and social benefits 2) Keep taxes and spending on these services at the same level as now 3) Increase taxes and spend more on health, education and social benefits"																																							TAXSPND1	GALLUP	"People have different views about whether it is more important to reduce taxes or keep up government spending. How about you? Which of these statements comes closest to your own view? 1) Taxes being cut, even if it means some reduction in government services such as health, education, and welfare 2) Things should be left as they are 3) Government services such as helath, education, and welfare should be extended even if it means some increases in taxes.  "																																							TAXSPND1	MORI	"People have different views about whether it is more important to reduce taxes or keep up government spending. How about you? Which of these statements comes closest to your own view? 1) Taxes should be cut, even if it means some reduction in government services such as health, education, and welfare 2) Things should be left as they are 3) Government services such as helath, education, and welfare should be extended even if it means some increases in taxes.  "																																							TAXSPND2	YOUGOV	"People have different views about whether it is more important to reduce taxes or keep up government spending. Which of these statements comes closest to your own view? 1) Taxes should be cut, even if it means some reduction in government services such as health, education and welfare 2) Things should be left as they are 3) Government services such as health, education and welfare Should be extended, even if it means some increase in taxes"																																							TAXSPND3	BES	"If the Government had a choice between reducing taxes and spending more on the social services, which should it do?"																																							TAXSPND4	GALLUP	"If the Government were to cut expenditure on arms, what should they do with the money they save, assuming that they could only do one of the things given on the card: Spend more on public services versus reduce taxes. "																																							TOLERANT	BES	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. People in Britain should be more tolerant of those who lead unconventional lives.																																							TOLERANT	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it People in Britain should be more tolerant of those who lead unconventional lives.																																							TOOMUCH	YOUGOV	"Taking all forms of taxation into account, do you think you personally pay too much in taxes every year, or too little or about the right amount?"																																							TRADVALS	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Young people today don't have enough respect for traditional British values.																																							TRADVALS	BES	Please tick one box for each statements below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Young people today don’t have enough respect for traditional British values.																																							TROOPOUT	BSA	Some people think that government policy towards Northern Ireland should include a complete withdrawal of British Troops. Would you personally support or oppose such a policy? Strongly or a little?																																							TUBETTER	GALLUP	I'm going to read you a few statements. For each please tell me if you tend to agree or disagree with it? Most workers who are not in management jobs would be better off belonging to a union than not belonging to one.																																							TUCNTRL	GALLUP	How important would you say controlling the unions is at the moment?																																							TUCOMP	MORI	"I am going to read out some statements relating to trade unions. For each one, please tell me from this card, how strongly you agree or disagree with it? Everyone who works should have to belong to a trade union."																																							TUCOMP2	GALLUP	In a factory which has an union should the workers who are not members be free to stay out of the union if they are getting union rates of pay or should it be compulsory that they join the union?																																							TUCOMP3	GALLUP	Do you think the union members are or are not justified in putting pressure on the non-members to join the union by refusing to work with them?																																							TUEFFIC	GALLUP	Do you think that Trade Unions should or should not try to get their members to work more efficiently?																																							TUESSEN	MORI	"I am going to read out some statements relating to trade unions. For each one, please tell me from this card, how strongly you agree or disagree with it? Trade unions are essential to protect workers' interests."																																							TUEXTREM	MORI	"I am going to read out some statements relating to trade unions. For each one, please tell me from this card, how strongly you agree or disagree with it? Most trade unions are controlled by extremists and militants."																																							TUFAIR	GALLUP	I'm going to read you a few statements. For each please tell me if you tend to agree or disagree with it. Trade unions ensure fair treatment for workers.																																							TUGOOD	GALLUP	"Generally speaking and thinking of Britain as a whole, do you think Trade Unions are a good or bad thing?"																																							TUJOIN	GALLUP	Do you think that employers should or should not encourage their staff to join a trade union?																																							TULAWS	BES	"Using this card, do you think the government should or should not do the following, or doesn't it matter either way? Introduce stricter laws to regulate the activities of trade unions."																																							TULAWS	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show whether or not you think the government should: Introduce stricter laws to regulate the activities of trade unions.																																							TULDRS	GALLUP	I'm going to read you a few statements. For each please tell me if you tend to agree or disagree with it. Trade unions get power or money for union leaders.																																							TUNEEDED	GALLUP	"I'm going to read you a few statements. For each please tell me if you tend to agree or disagree with it. Trade unions may have been needed at one time in Britain, but not any longer."																																							TUPOWER	BES	Thinking now of trade unions and big business in this country. Do you think that trade unions have too much power or not?																																							TUPOWER	BSA	Do you think that trade unions in this country have too much power or too little power?																																							TUPOWER2	MORI	"I am going to read out some statements relating to trade unions. For each one, please tell me from this card, how strongly you agree or disagree with it? Trade unions have to much power in Britain today."																																							TUPOWER3	GALLUP	"Do you think that trade unions are becoming too powerful, are not powerful enough or are about right?"																																							TUPOWER4	NOP	"Do you think the unions have too much power, too little power, or about the right amount?"																																							TUPOWER5	NOP	Do you agree or disagree that Trade Unions have too much power in Britain today?																																							TUPRISON	GALLUP	Do you think that trade union leaders should or should not be sent to prison for defying the law?																																							TUPROFIT	GALLUP	Do you think that Trade Unions should or should not support the idea that people employed by a firm should have a share in the profits of their firm?																																							TUREFOR1	GALLUP	Can you tell me whether you approve or disapprove of the following suggestions for the reform of trade union law? Closed shops should be established only if a majority of the workers concerned vote for it.																																							TUREFOR2	GALLUP	Can you tell me whether you approve or disapprove of the following suggestions for the reform of trade union law? No strikes to be called until there is a postal ballot of union members involved.																																							TUREFOR3	GALLUP	"Can you tell me whether you approve or disapprove of the following suggestions for the reform of trade union law? A ban on secondary picketing, that is, a ban on picketing a company not directly involved in a strike. "																																							TUREFOR4	GALLUP	Can you tell me whether you approve or disapprove of the following suggestions for the reform of trade union law? Public money to be used to encourage a wider use of trade union secret ballots.																																							TUREFOR5	GALLUP	"Can you tell me whether you approve or disapprove of the following suggestions for the reform of trade union law? Removal of the right of those in key public industries to strike, in return for guaranteed wage increases."																																							TUREFOR6	GALLUP	"Do you think that workers on strike at a company should or should not be able to picket the factory, so long as the picket is peaceful?"																																							TUREFOR7	GALLUP	Do you think that people who are not employed by a particular factory or company where there is a strike should or should not be able to support the strike by joining the picketing? 																																							TUREGUL	GALLUP	"Do you think that the laws regulating trade unions have gone too far, not far enough, or are about right?"																																							TUSHARE	GALLUP	"Do you think that Trade Unions should or should not take a share in the management of the firms for which their members work, e.g. the appointment of foremen, etc?"																																							TUWAGES	GALLUP	I'm going to read you a few statements. For each please tell me if you tend to agree or disagree with it. Wages and working conditions would have reached today's level even without the efforts of trade unions.																																							TUWAGES2	GALLUP	"I'm going to read you a few statements. For each please tell me if you tend to agree or disagree with it. Trade unions improve wages, working conditions and job security for workers."																																							UNEBENEF	GALLUP	"Do you think the current unemployment benefits are too high, about right or too low?"																																							UNEFAULT	BES	"Please say whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements, or say if you are not sure either way. When someone is unemployed it’s usually his or her own fault."																																							UNEFAULT	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. When someone is unemployed it's usually his or her own fault.																																							UNEMPBAD	GALLUP	Do you think that unemployment is always a bad thing or can it sometimes be justified as necessary during a period of adjustment?																																							UNEMPINF	BSA	"If the government had to choose between keeping down inflation or keeping down unemployment, to which do you think it should give highest priority? (face-to-face)"																																							UNEMPINF2	BSA	If the government had to choose between keeping down inflation or keeping down unemployment to which do you think it should give highest priority? (self-completion)																																							UNEMPINF3	GALLUP	Which do you think the government should give greater attention to -trying to curb inflation or trying to reduce unemployment?																																							UNEMPINF4	GALLUP	"Do you think that the Government should or should not always aim at keeping unemployment as low as possible, even if this means some inflation with rising prices?"																																							UNEMPJOB	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Around here, most unemployed people could find a job if they really wanted one."																																							UNIONMORE	ICM	Agree/disagree with statement: Trade unions should have more say in the running of the economy.																																							UNITEDIRE	GALLUP	Do you approve or disapprove if our Government encouraged Northern Ireland to join up with Southern Ireland?																																							UKNUCPOL	BSA	"Which, if either, of these two statements comes closest to your own opinion on British nuclear policy? Britain should rid itself of nuclear weapons while persuading others to do the same OR Britain should keep its nuclear weapons until we persuade others to reduce theirs. "																																							USANUKE	BSA	Do you think that the siting of American nuclear missiles in Britain makes Britain a safer or a less safe place to live?																																							OWNNUKE	BSA	And do you think that having our own independent nuclear missiles makes Britain a safer or a less safe place to live?																																							VIETNAM1	NOP	On the whole do you think Britain should support the Americans in Vietnam or not?																																							VIETNAM2	GALLUP	Would you approve or disapprove if the British government were to send British troops to fight alongside the South Vietnamese in Vietnam?																																							WAGECLM	GALLUP	In the present situation should the trade unions hold back wage claims or go ahead with their demands?																																							WEALTH	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Ordinary working people do not get their fair share of the nation's wealth.																																							WEALTH	BES	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Ordinary working people do not get their fair share of the nation's wealth.																																							WEALTH1	BES	Please indicate whether you agree or disagree with each of the following statements. Ordinary working people get their fair share of the nation's wealth.																																							WEALTH1	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. Ordinary people get their fair share of the nation's wealth.																																							WEALTH1	GALLUP	Would you please tell me for each of the following statements how much you agree or disagree? Ordinary people get their fair share of the nation's wealth.																																							WEALTH2	BHPS	People have different views about society. I'm going to read out some things people have said about Britain today and I'd like you to tell me which answer off the card comes closest to how you feel about each statement. Ordinary people get their fair share of the nation's wealth.																																							WELFARE	BSA	Derived Variable: Welfare Scale.																																							WELFBEN	BES	"I want to ask about some changes that have been happening in Britain over the years. For each one I read out, please use this card to say whether you think it has gone too far or not gone far enough. First the welfare benefits that are available to people today?"																																							WELFBEN	GALLUP	"Now we would like your views on some of the general changes that have been taking place in Britain over the last few years. Now using one of the answers on this card, how do you feel about: the welfare benefits that are available today?"																																							WELFFEET	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. If welfare benefits weren't so generous people would learn to stand on their own two feet.																																							WELFHELP	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The welfare state encourages people to stop helping each other.																																							WELFRESP	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The welfare state makes people nowadays less willing to look after themselves.																																							WELFSTIG	BSA	Please tick one box for each statement below to show how much you agree or disagree with it. People receiving social security are made to feel like second class citizens.																																							WOMEQU	GALLUP	"Do you approve or disapprove of paying women the same as men, if they are doing the same work?"																																							WORKERS	BES	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Giving workers more say in the running of the place where they work?"																																							WORKERS	GALLUP	"I am going to read out a list of things that some people believe a Government should do. For each one you can say whether you feel it is very important that it should be done, fairly important that it should be done, fairly important that it should not be done, very important that it should not be done, or it doesn't matter either way. Giving workers more say in the running of the place where they work?"																																							WORKERS	BES	"Do you think the government should or should not do the following , or doesn't it matter either way? Give workers more say in running where they work."																																							WRONGLAW	BSA	"Please tick one box for each statement to show how much you agree or disagree with it. The law should always be obeyed, even if a particular law is wrong."																																																																																